B站柴荣老师
学的是思维意识
什么是同义替换？什么是逻辑关系？对做阅读有什么影响？
第四章 同义替换
一、原文同义替换（最难）
1.主题词同义替换：
2008Text3
In the early1960s Wilt Chamberlain was one of theonly three players in the National
①
BasketballAssociation(NBA)listedatoversevenfeet.Ifhehadplayedlastseason,however,
he would have been one of 42. The bodies playing major professional sports have changed
dramatically over the years, and managers have been more than willing to adjust team
uniformstofitthegrowingnumbersofbigger,longerframes.
The trend in sports, though, may be obscuring an unrecognized reality: Americans
②
have generally stopped growing. Though typically about two inches taller now than 140
years ago, today’s people—especially those born to families who have lived in the U.S. for
manygenerations—apparentlyreachedtheirlimitintheearly1960s.Andtheyaren’t likely
togetanytaller.“Inthegeneralpopulationtoday,atthisgenetic,environmentallevel,we’ve
pretty much gone as far as we can go,” says anthropologist William Cameron Chumlea of
WrightStateUniversity. InthecaseofNBAplayers,theirincreaseinheightappearstoresult
fromtheincreasinglycommonpracticeofrecruitingplayersfromallovertheworld.
Growth, which rarely continues beyond the age of 20, demands calories and
③
nutrients—notably, protein—to feed expanding tissues. At the start of the 20th century,
under-nutrition and childhood infections got in the way. But as diet and health improved,
children and adolescents have, on average, increased in height by about an inch and a half
every 20 years, a pattern known as the secular trend in height. Yet according to the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention, average height—5'9" for men, 5'4" for women—hasn’t
reallychangedsince1960.
Genetically speaking, there are advantages to avoiding substantial height. During
④
childbirth, larger babies have more difficulty passing through the birth canal. Moreover,
even though humans have been upright for millions of years, our feet and back continue to
strugglewithbipedalpostureandcannoteasilywithstandrepeatedstrainimposedbyoversize
limbs. “There are some real constraints that are set by the genetic architecture of the
individualorganism,”saysanthropologistWilliamLeonardofNorthwesternUniversity.
Genetic maximums can change, but don’t expect this to happen soon. Claire C.
⑤
Gordon, senior anthropologist at the Army Research Center in Natick, Mass., ensures that 90
percent of the uniforms and workstations fit recruits without alteration. She says that, unlike
those for basketball, the length of military uniforms has not changedfor some time. And if
you need to predict human height in the near future to design a piece of equipment, Gordon
saysthatbyandlarge,“youcouldusetoday’sdataandfeelfairlyconfident.”
B站柴荣老师
提炼主题词：身高
主题词方向：不长了
表示身高的词语全文写的一样吗？不一样
你能识别吗？不能识别
怎么办？培养同义替换意识 多总结提高敏感度
2.主题词方向同义替换：
2010Text2
①Over the past decade, thousands of patents have been granted for what are called
business methods. Amazon. com received one for its “one-click” online payment system.
Merrill Lynch got legal protection for an asset allocation strategy. One inventor patented a
techniqueforliftingabox.
② Now the nation’s top patent court appears completely ready to scale back on
business-method patents, which have been controversial ever since they were first
authorized 10 years ago. In a move that has intellectual-property lawyers abuzz, the U.S.
CourtofAppealsfortheFederalCircuitsaidit woulduseaparticularcasetoconductabroad
review of business-method patents. In re Bilski, as the case is known, is “a very big deal”,
says Dennis D. Crouch of the University of Missouri School of law. It “has the potential to
eliminateanentireclassofpatents”.
③Curbs on business-methodclaims would be a dramatic about-face, because it was the
Federal Circuit itself thatintroduced suchpatents withits 1998 decision in theso-calledState
Street Bank case, approving a patent on a way of pooling mutual-fund assets. That ruling
produced an explosion in business-method patent filings, initially by emerging Internet
companies trying to stake out exclusive rights to specific types of online transactions. Later,
more established companies raced to add such patents to their files, if only as a defensive
move against rivals that might beat them to the punch. In 2005, IBM noted in a court filing
that it had been issued more than 300 business-method patents, despite the fact that it
questioned the legal basis for granting them. Similarly, some Wall Street investment films
armed themselves with patents for financial products, even as they took positions in court
casesopposingthepractice.
④The Bilski case involves a claimed patent on a method for hedging risk in the energy
market.TheFederal circuitissuedanunusualorderstatingthatthecasewouldbeheardbyall
12 of the court’s judges, rather than a typical panel of three, and that one issue it wants to
evaluateiswhetheritshould“reconsider”itsStateStreetBankruling.
⑤The Federal Circuit’s action comes in the wake of a series of recent decisions by the
Supreme Court that has narrowed the scope of protections for patent holders. Last April, for
example, the justices signaled that too many patents were being upheld for “inventions” that
are obvious. The judges on the Federal Circuit are “reacting to the anti-patent trend at the
Supreme Court”, says Harold C. Wegner, a patent attorney and professor at George
WashingtonUniversityLawSchool.
B站柴荣老师
提炼主题词：business-methodpatents 怎么没替换？没法替换
主题词方向：减少 scaleback/eliminate/curb/narrow
26.[C]thepossiblerestrictionontheirgranting 限制=减少（—）
27.[D]ItmaychangethelegalpracticesintheU.S.. 改变=包含减少
29.[B]areoftenunnecessarilyissued 没有必要=应该减少（—）
30.[A]Aloomingthreattobusiness-methodpatents 威胁=减少（—）
二、原文与题干同义替换
例1: 英一 2014Text4
②In 2010, leading congressional Democrats and Republicans sent letters to the AAAS
asking that it identify actions that could be taken by “federal, state and local
governments,universities, foundations, educators, individual benefactors andothers” to
“maintain national excellence in humanities and social scientific scholarship and
education.” In response, the American Academy formed the Commission on the Humanities
and Social Sciences. Among the commission’s 51 membersare top-tier-university presidents,
scholars, lawyers, judges, and business executives, as well as prominent figures from
diplomacy,filmmaking,musicandjournalism.
37.InfluentialfiguresintheCongressrequiredthattheAAASreportonhowto____.
[A]safeguardindividuals’rightstoeducation.
[B]definethegovernment’sroleineducation.
[C]retainpeople’sinterestinliberaleducation.
[D]keepaleadingpositioninliberaleducation.
例2: 英二 2017Text3
①Today, widespread social pressure to immediately go to college in conjunction with
increasingly high expectations in a fast-moving world often causes students to completely
overlook the possibility of taking a gap year. After all, if everyone you know is going to
B站柴荣老师
college in the fall, itseems silly to stayback a year, doesn’t it?And after goingto school
for12years,itdoesn’tfeelnaturaltospendayeardoingsomethingthatisn’tacademic.
31.Oneofthereasonsforhigh-schoolgraduatesnottakingagapyearisthat_____.
[A]theythinkitacademicallymisleading
[B]theyhavealotoffuntoexpectincollege
[C]itfeelsstrangetododifferentlyfromothers
[D]itseemsworthlesstotakeoff-campuscourses
afterall “毕竟” 例子：毕竟你刚开始练习，出错也很正常。
三、原文与选项同义替换（最熟悉）
例1: 英一 2012Text1
But on the general effectiveness of the social cure, Rosenberg is less persuasive.Join
④
theClubis filled with too much irrelevant detail and not enough exploration of the social
and biological factors that make peer pressure so powerful. The most glaring flaw of the
social cure asit’s presentedhere is thatit doesn’twork verywell forvery long. RageAgainst
the Haze failed once state funding was cut. Evidence that the loveLife program produces
lastingchangesislimitedandmixed.
23.Intheauthor’sview,Rosenberg’sbookfailsto________.
[A]adequatelyprobesocialandbiologicalfactors
[B]effectivelyevadetheflawsofthesocialcure
[C]illustratethefunctionsofstatefunding
[D]producealong-lastingsocialeffect
例2: 英二 2012Text2
Trade publications counseled department stores that, in order to increase sales, they
④
shouldcreatea“thirdsteppingstone”betweeninfantwearandolderkids’clothes.Itwasonly
after “toddler” became a common shoppers’ term that it evolved into a broadly accepted
developmentalstage.Splittingkids,oradults,intoever-tiniercategorieshasprovedasure-fire
waytoboostprofits.
29.WemaylearnfromParagraph4thatdepartmentstoreswereadvisedto_______.
B站柴荣老师
[A]focusoninfantwearandolderkids’clothes
[B]attachequalimportancetodifferentgenders
[C]classifyconsumersintosmallergroups
[D]createsomecommonshoppers’terms
四、常见同义替换方式总结：
 原文同义替换
 原文与题干同义替换
 原文与选项同义替换
 1. e.g.agree=agreement
不同词性的替换
 2. / e.g.job=profession
同义词近义词替换：
 3. e.g.big=notsmall
反义替换
 4. e.g.AinfluenceB→BwasinfluencedbyA
主被动替换
 5. e.g.flower→rose
上义词（宽泛的词）下义词（具体的词）替换
 6. e.g.withoutAworldbeshabby→Aaddsbeautytoworld
正话反说
B站柴荣老师
第五章 逻辑关系
常见逻辑关系梳理：
 顺接关系
1.并列词
and,and also,or,either...or..., neither...nor..., notonly...but also...,
likewise, similarly, equally, in the same way, that is (to say), as well as, much the
sameas.
2.递进词
also, then, besides, additionally, in addition, furthermore, moreover, what's more,
indeed,even, in effect,in fact
 相反关系
1.转折词
but, yet, rather, still, however, contrarily, on the contrary, by contrast, unfortunately,
infact, in reality, actually,ontheother hand
2.让步词
although, though,even though, even if,nevertheless,despite, in spiteof, regardlessof,
anyway, anyhow,even
3.对比词
while,whereas, ratherthan.., insteadof,not...but...
 因果关系
1.因果词
because, for, since, as, thus, hence, therefore, so, so..that..., such...that...,
consequently, accordingly, due to, thanks to, on account of,account for, considering,
seeingthat, in that, nowthat, asа result,for thisreason
2.目的词
inorder that..,for, in order to, sothat, lest, forfearthat, in case
3.条件词
B站柴荣老师
if, only if, unless, otherwise, as soon as, as long as, in case, suppose that, supposing
that, providedthat, providing that, with (thehelp of),when,whenever
 举例关系
such as, for example, for instance, of(these, those, them), among(these, those, them),
to illustrate, as anillustration, to take an example, more specifically speaking, namely,
that is(tosay)
 时间关系
1.first, second, last of all; in the first place, in the second place, finally; to begin with,
to continue; first...then, on the one hand...on the other hand; for one thing... for
another;one...another; some...others.. still others...
2.when, whenever, before, after, since, as, until, till, simultaneously, meanwhile, in
themeantime,atthesame time
关于逻辑关系中英文差异
汉语：不重视逻辑
英语：重视逻辑
逻辑关系在阅读中的应用：
 句内逻辑关系：
While polls show Britons rate “the countryside” alongside the royal family,
Shakespeare and the National Health Service (NHS) as what makes them proudest of
theircountry,this haslimited politicalsupport.
提炼：whileA，B
意思：尽管民意调查表明英国人把乡村看作是最自豪的，但是...
预判这篇文章主题：主题词+方向 乡村+不好
 句间逻辑关系：
President Trump has underlined fossil fuels—especially coal—as the path to
economic growth. In a recent speech in Iowa, he dismissed wind power as an
unreliable energy source. But that message did not play well with many in Iowa,
where wind turbines dot the fields and provide 36 percent of the state’s electricity
generation—and where tech giants like Microsoft are being attracted by the
availability ofclean energyto power theirdatacenters.
意思：他否定风能.. 但是...
问T总统对风能什么态度？—
问作者对风能什么态度？ +
转折关系的作用是什么？否定前面观点，引出自己的观点
B站柴荣老师
 段间逻辑关系：
Over the past decade, thousands of patents have been granted for what are
①
called business methods. Amazon. com received one for its “one-click” online
payment system. Merrill Lynch got legal protection for an asset allocation strategy.
Oneinventor patenteda technique forliftinga box.
Now the nation’s top patent court appears completely ready to scale back on
②
business-method patents, which have been controversial ever since they were first
authorized 10 years ago. In a move that has intellectual-property lawyers abuzz, the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit said it would use a particular case to
conduct a broad review of business-method patents. In re Bilski, as the case is known,
is “a very big deal”, says Dennis D. Crouch of the University of Missouri School of
law.It“hasthepotential to eliminate anentire classof patents”.
问P1和P2 什么关系？今昔对比
问这篇主旨在哪？P2
问出题人会在哪里出题？P2
结论：出题人往往在逻辑重要的地方出题
作业要求：
开始刷阅读题之后：
1.学会总结同义替换
2.学会总结逻辑关系
