---PASSAGE ONE---

Questions 46 to 50 are based on the following passage.
There are hundreds of personality quizzes online that assert they can ascertain whether the right or left half
of your brain is dominant. Left-brained people are supposedly logical and excel at language and math while
right-brained people are more imaginative, emotionally intelligent and skilled with spatial reasoning. There's
just one problem: That's not how brains work.
Popular science enthusiasts sort of took this idea and ran with it, and it's become woven in popular culture
now, and it's not going away.
2024年12月英语六级真题第3套 第4页，共7页
Despite this enduring belief, there's no such thing as being "right-brained" or "left-brained". Whether
you're someone who tends more towards creativity or logic has nothing to do with one hemisphere of your
brain being dominant over the other. But the actual science of how the two halves of our brains work together is
sometimes stranger than fiction.
The human brain is divided into two hemispheres, the left and right. In all vertebrate (脊椎的) animals, the
right hemisphere controls the left side of the body and vice versa. And scientists have long known, thanks to the
behaviors of patients who suffered brain injuries, that different areas of the brain do different things.
But many scientists struggled with this idea, because the very suggestion that the left and right halves of
the brain operate differently disrupted the idea that nature tends toward perfect symmetry.
Work by neuroscientists (神经科学家) has revealed the importance of different hemispheres of the brain
for different activities. However, their research quickly saw some misinterpretations in the general public:
Some presumed creative people must be right-brained and logical people left-brained. It is proven that not only
is personality unrelated to the different halves of the brain, but people aren't really right- or left-brained to begin
with. The idea that we have left-dominant people and right-dominant people, and that this is related to
personality, is categorically false. That's never been supported in the neuroscience community. Neuroscientists
don't believe that and never have.
What scientists learned is that there are really important differences between the left hemisphere and the
right hemisphere. It's just that they have nothing to do with personality or whether cognitive strategy is more
logical or free spirited or creative. While researchers have shown the limitations of how the hemispheres of our
brains influence our lives, it's not difficult to understand the appeal of such ideas. People are endlessly
fascinated by themselves and their friends, and the subtle differences in how people think about the world are
really meaningful to them. When you come up with an online quiz that tells us something about ourselves,
we're drawn to that. It's irresistible. But you have to take it with an enormous grain of salt.
46. What do numerous personality quizzes online claim they are able to do?
A) Distinguish between the two hemispheres of one's brain.
B) Determine whether one is left-brained or right-brained.
C) Tell if one is more of a linguist or of a mathematician.
D) Ascertain how one's brain performs different tasks.
47. What does the author say is sometimes stranger than fiction?
A) How one hemisphere of the brain impacts creativity.
B) How the two halves of our brains work alternately.
C) How the two hemispheres of our brains cooperate.
D) How one half of the brain dominates the other.
48. Why did many scientists have difficulty endorsing the idea that different areas of the brain do different
things?
A) It contradicts the assumption that the two hemispheres of the brain are symmetrical.
B) It dismisses the view that the universe has been evolving in a consistent manner.
C) It is in conflict with the suggestion that the left and right halves of the brain work together.
D) It disrupts the idea that the right hemisphere of the brain controls the left side of the body.
2024年12月英语六级真题第3套 第5页，共7页
49. What belief have neuroscientists long rejected according to the passage?
A) There are left-dominant people and right-dominant people with different personalities.
B) There are noticeable differences between the left and right hemispheres of the brain.
C) One's personality is hardly related to the different halves of the brain.
D) Different areas of the brain are responsible for different activities.
50. What are we advised to do with an online quiz that tells us something about ourselves?
A) Challenge its authority. C) Evaluate its popularity.
B) Scrutinize its originality. D) Question its reliability.

---PASSAGE TWO---

Questions 51 to 55 are based on the following passage.
One hundred thirty-five students, four teachers, one giant classroom: This is what 9th grade looks like at
Westwood High School, in Mesa, Arizona's largest school system. There, an innovative teaching model has
taken hold, and is spreading to other schools in the district and beyond.
Five years ago, faced with high teacher turnover and declining student enrollment, Westwood's leaders
decided to try something different. Working with professors at Arizona State University's teachers college, they
piloted a classroom model known as team teaching, which allows teachers to dissolve the walls that separate
their classes across physical or grade divides.
The teachers share large groups of students-sometimes 100 or more-and rotate between group instruction,
one-on-one interventions, small study groups, or whatever the teachers as a team agree is a priority that day.
What looks at times like chaos is in fact a carefully orchestrated plan: Each morning, the Westwood teams meet
to hammer out a personalized program for every student the team will focus on that day.
By giving teachers more opportunity to collaborate, Mesa's administrators hoped to fill staffing gaps and
boost teacher morale and retention. Initial research suggests the gamble could pay off.
"Teachers are doing fantastic things, but it's very rare a teacher walks into another room to see what's
happening," said Andi Fourlis, superintendent of Mesa Public Schools. "Our profession is so slow to advance
because we are working in isolation."
Of course, overhauling teaching approaches can't fix all the frustrations teachers have, such as low pay,
but early results from Mesa show team teaching may be helping to reverse low morale. In a survey of hundreds
of the district's teachers, researchers found those who worked on teams reported greater job satisfaction, more
frequent collaborations with colleagues, and more positive interactions with students.
Another benefit of teams, teachers say, is that they can help each other improve their instruction. During
one planning session, English teacher Jeff Hall shared a performance appraisal with a science teacher: Her
recent lecture on something she called "the central dogma of biology" had bewildered him and their other
teammates.
"If the science is too confusing for me, can you imagine the frustration you feel as kids?" Hall said. But
the science teacher, he said, wouldn't have known about the confusion on her own.
The model is not for everyone. Some teachers approached about volunteering for a team have said they
prefer to work alone. Team teaching can also be a scheduling nightmare, especially at schools like Westwood
where only some staff work in teams. There are also thorny questions like how to evaluate four teachers on the
2024年12月英语六级真题第3套 第6页，共7页
performance of 135 students. But for the time being, it seems to be working.
51. What do we learn about team teaching from the passage?
A) It is generally conducted in classrooms without walls.
B) It allows students to choose teachers they favor most.
C) It prioritizes peer work over classroom instruction.
D) It is closely coordinated despite seeming confusion.
52. What does initial research suggest regarding Westwood's innovative teaching model?
A) It could help raise teachers' pay. C) It could cut down overall costs.
B) It could turn out to be a success. D) It could end up like a gamble.
53. What did superintendent Andi Fourlis say about the teaching profession?
A) Morale cannot be boosted until teaching models are overhauled.
B) Teachers are simply too busy to visit classes of their colleagues.
C) Progress is slow due to lack of collaboration among teachers.
D) Teachers often do fantastic things without being noticed.
54. What does the author want to show by citing English teacher Jeff Hall's experience?
A) English teachers and science teachers are complementary in performing their tasks.
B) A teacher of arts and letters is completely puzzled by what a science teacher teaches.
C) The new teaching model helps inform the teacher how their instruction is received.
D) Science teachers will hardly know the confusion they create without a performance appraisal.
55. What does the author think is one of the difficult problems in implementing the new teaching model?
A) What to do with teachers working alone. C) How to recruit volunteers for a team.
B) What to include in teaching schedules. D) How to assess each teacher's performance.
